README.md, before:

# Create T3 App

This is a [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/) project bootstrapped with `create-t3-app`.

## What's next? How do I make an app with this?

We try to keep this project as simple as possible, so you can start with just the scaffolding we set up for you, and add additional things later when they become necessary.

If you are not familiar with the different technologies used in this project, please refer to the respective docs. If you still are in the wind, please join our [Discord](https://t3.gg/discord) and ask for help.

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) - JS framework we will be using 
- [Prisma](https://prisma.io) - a framework to create typesafe database schemas 
- [tRPC](https://trpc.io) - simple and typesafe API routing 

## Learn More

To learn more about the [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/), take a look at the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://create.t3.gg/)
- [Learn the T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/en/faq#what-learning-resources-are-currently-available) — Check out these awesome tutorials

You can check out the [create-t3-app GitHub repository](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app) — your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## How do I deploy this?

TBD

## Setting up development environment

Make sure that you have Git installed on your machine, as well as Node.js. You can check this by typing `git` and `npm` in your wsl terminal (if you're on windows) or normal terminal if you are on mac. If these commands are found, then you have Git and Node.

Make sure you have VSCode, this will make your life very easy when developing. Also make sure you install VSCode extenstions such as Typescript/Javascript, Prittier (for formating), and ESLint (for linting our code as you write it, read about linters if you are interested), Prisma, Git, and any others that it will automatically suggest. 

To get this project into your VSCode, get into an empty folder, and then open the terminal and type in `git clone https://gitlab.com/crunchyice/tide-share.git`. This will clone the repository into your empty folder. Then, `cd tide-share` into the folder and then use the command `code .` to automatically open up a new VSCode windows within the folder. 

Following this, run `npm install` (plus `npm install @clerk/nextjs` to be safe (this is for our authentication)) and `npx prisma generate`. Once these commands run, run `npm run dev` and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to look at a live, local instance of the application you are running. 

# Evnironment variables:

Create a new file `.env` in the root of the project folder and over the contents from `.env.example`. This will include your environment variables in the project. These variables are for database connections, secret keys, constant URLs, and more. 


Explore the project and try to get a feel of the structure.

## Project structure

Will add to this section. 

## Committing and Pushing a change in the code 

After you make a change in the code, you will see the file name change color, and have a letter next to it. This is normal, and just means you have made a change to the file, and your code no longer matches the code in the Gitlab repository. Since we are working as a team on the same project, version control is important to understand, so we can efficiently work on the same project together. After you make a changen and know it works, and are ready to officially be done with your work, you have to commit your change. This a very important aspect to understand. Commits show the history of changes in code, with a breif description of what changed when you made that commit. 

When you are done with you changes, and made sure the website feature/aspect/etc works correctly, go ahead and ytype `git add .` into the terminal. This will "stage" your changes and get them ready to commit. Following this, type `git commit -m"This is a commit message"` and this will make your commit. You will notice all your file names will go back to the normal color, indicating the changes you just made are final. However, there is one more step. In order to get these changes uploaded to the remote repository, in Gitlab, you have to put `git push` in the terminal. Also if you open up the project in VSCode and you know changes have been made by someone else since the last time you opened it, you have to type `git pull` in the terminal to pull the new content into your local repository. 

## Workflow

This project development cycle will mostly be based off of Gitlab "Issues". If you look at the tabs on the left side of the screen, you will see "Plan" tab, and then inside you will see issues (I recommend you play around with all the different stuff in the gitlab tabs, there are a million things you can do and tons we won't touch during this project.). We will all be able to create issues. These could be as big or as small of an issue to complete. It can be a feature, a change, an implimentation, etc. You should be able to see some issues already. We can also create milestones for things like Pre-Alpha release, etc. 

Since we will be using issues to do our work, when you want to start an issue, you will click on one and press `Create Merge Request`. Doing this will create a new branch, and a draft merge request. A new branch means that a copy of the main repository has been copied to a new branch (named whatever the name of the issue is). The draft merge request is just a request to merge your branch back into the main branch when you are done with your changes. Gitlab does this so there is seamless workfow between branching and merging. 

For example, when you create a merge request within an issue, you will go back to VSCode and type `git fetch` into the terminal, this should return with the new branch name. To work inside of the new branch instead of main, you will type `git checkout <name-of-branch>`. If you are working in git bash termnial (go to tips section of this doc to see), you will see your working branch has changed. Now you can start implementing your changes, features, etc with no worries about messing anythinh up in main. When you are done with your changes, just request to merge into main under the 'Merge requests' tab in Gitlab. 

## Tips

1:  In VSCode, after making sure you have Git installed, open your terminal and then look on the right side of the terminal window. You should see a mini trash can, three dots, and other symbols. Click on the carrot, or down-pointing arrow and a menu should pop up with different terminal options. One of these should be git bash. It will have all the same commands as a linux bash terminal and you will be able to see which branch you are working in at any given time. 

2: Google, google, google. This project will entail many firsts for all of us and our biggest friend here is google and youtube.

Commit message:

Update README.md with project structure

README.md, after:

# Create T3 App

This is a [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/) project bootstrapped with `create-t3-app`.

## What's next? How do I make an app with this?

We try to keep this project as simple as possible, so you can start with just the scaffolding we set up for you, and add additional things later when they become necessary.

If you are not familiar with the different technologies used in this project, please refer to the respective docs. If you still are in the wind, please join our [Discord](https://t3.gg/discord) and ask for help.

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) - JS framework we will be using 
- [Prisma](https://prisma.io) - a framework to create typesafe database schemas 
- [tRPC](https://trpc.io) - simple and typesafe API routing 

## Learn More

To learn more about the [T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/), take a look at the following resources:

- [Documentation](https://create.t3.gg/)
- [Learn the T3 Stack](https://create.t3.gg/en/faq#what-learning-resources-are-currently-available) — Check out these awesome tutorials

You can check out the [create-t3-app GitHub repository](https://github.com/t3-oss/create-t3-app) — your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## How do I deploy this?

TBD

## Setting up development environment

Make sure that you have Git installed on your machine, as well as Node.js. You can check this by typing `git` and `npm` in your wsl terminal (if you're on windows) or normal terminal if you are on mac. If these commands are found, then you have Git and Node.

Make sure you have VSCode, this will make your life very easy when developing. Also make sure you install VSCode extenstions such as Typescript/Javascript, Prittier (for formating), and ESLint (for linting our code as you write it, read about linters if you are interested), Prisma, Git, and any others that it will automatically suggest. 

To get this project into your VSCode, get into an empty folder, and then open the terminal and type in `git clone https://gitlab.com/crunchyice/tide-share.git`. This will clone the repository into your empty folder. Then, `cd tide-share` into the folder and then use the command `code .` to automatically open up a new VSCode windows within the folder. 

Following this, run `npm install` (plus `npm install @clerk/nextjs` to be safe (this is for our authentication)) and `npx prisma generate`. Once these commands run, run `npm run dev` and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to look at a live, local instance of the application you are running. 

# Evnironment variables:

Create a new file `.env` in the root of the project folder and over the contents from `.env.example`. This will include your environment variables in the project. These variables are for database connections, secret keys, constant URLs, and more. 


Explore the project and try to get a feel of the structure.

## Project structure

`prisma`: holds database schemas, which layout the grounds for what each model in our database should look like and each type for all aspects of that model 

`public`: holds any media we need like images or icons we need. This would hold static media that would not change 

`src`: holds the `pages` and `api` folders as well as others, along with the main `_app.tsx` file. This is where all the main code will go, and routes all the pages. All new pages will go into the pages folder.

`server`: will hold routers for posts and users, along with the primary router. Will not have to worry until cloud instance and database is set up.

`styles`: holds all global styles we can use. Will probably not use this folder because we are using styleable components from Material UI 

`utils`: This folder will hold the client-side entrypoint for tRPC router 

`.env`: holds all constant and global environment variables such as secret keys and database URLs

## Committing and Pushing a change in the code 

After you make a change in the code, you will see the file name change color, and have a letter next to it. This is normal, and just means you have made a change to the file, and your code no longer matches the code in the Gitlab repository. Since we are working as a team on the same project, version control is important to understand, so we can efficiently work on the same project together. After you make a changen and know it works, and are ready to officially be done with your work, you have to commit your change. This a very important aspect to understand. Commits show the history of changes in code, with a breif description of what changed when you made that commit. 

When you are done with you changes, and made sure the website feature/aspect/etc works correctly, go ahead and ytype `git add .` into the terminal. This will "stage" your changes and get them ready to commit. Following this, type `git commit -m"This is a commit message"` and this will make your commit. You will notice all your file names will go back to the normal color, indicating the changes you just made are final. However, there is one more step. In order to get these changes uploaded to the remote repository, in Gitlab, you have to put `git push` in the terminal. Also if you open up the project in VSCode and you know changes have been made by someone else since the last time you opened it, you have to type `git pull` in the terminal to pull the new content into your local repository. 

## Workflow

This project development cycle will mostly be based off of Gitlab "Issues". If you look at the tabs on the left side of the screen, you will see "Plan" tab, and then inside you will see issues (I recommend you play around with all the different stuff in the gitlab tabs, there are a million things you can do and tons we won't touch during this project.). We will all be able to create issues. These could be as big or as small of an issue to complete. It can be a feature, a change, an implimentation, etc. You should be able to see some issues already. We can also create milestones for things like Pre-Alpha release, etc. 

Since we will be using issues to do our work, when you want to start an issue, you will click on one and press `Create Merge Request`. Doing this will create a new branch, and a draft merge request. A new branch means that a copy of the main repository has been copied to a new branch (named whatever the name of the issue is). The draft merge request is just a request to merge your branch back into the main branch when you are done with your changes. Gitlab does this so there is seamless workfow between branching and merging. 

For example, when you create a merge request within an issue, you will go back to VSCode and type `git fetch` into the terminal, this should return with the new branch name. To work inside of the new branch instead of main, you will type `git checkout <name-of-branch>`. If you are working in git bash termnial (go to tips section of this doc to see), you will see your working branch has changed. Now you can start implementing your changes, features, etc with no worries about messing anythinh up in main. When you are done with your changes, just request to merge into main under the 'Merge requests' tab in Gitlab. 

## Tips

1:  In VSCode, after making sure you have Git installed, open your terminal and then look on the right side of the terminal window. You should see a mini trash can, three dots, and other symbols. Click on the carrot, or down-pointing arrow and a menu should pop up with different terminal options. One of these should be git bash. It will have all the same commands as a linux bash terminal and you will be able to see which branch you are working in at any given time. 

2: Google, google, google. This project will entail many firsts for all of us and our biggest friend here is google and youtube.
